CHAPTERS 10-12 OF ISAIAH
This is a LibriVox recording.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org.
Recording by Simon Wainwright.
The Book of Isaiah, King James Version, Chapter 10.
Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees,
and that right grievousness which they have prescribed,
to turn aside the needy from judgment,
and to take away the right from the poor of my people,
that widows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless.
And what will ye do in the day of visitation,
and in the desolation which shall come from far?
To whom will ye flee for help?
And where will ye leave your glory?
Without me they shall bow down under the prisoners,
and they shall fall under the slain.
For all this his anger is not turned away,
but his hand is stretched out still.
O Assyrian, the rod of my anger,
and the staff in their hand of mine indignation,
I will send him against an hypocritical nation,
and against the people of my wrath will I give him a charge,
to take the spoil and to take the prey,
and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.
Howbeit he meaneth not so, neither doth his heart think so,
but it is in his heart to destroy, and cut off nations, not a few.
For he sayeth, Are not my princes altogether kings?
Is not Calno as Kar-Kamish?
Is not Hamath as Arpad?
Is not Samaria as Damascus?
As my hand hath found the kingdoms of the idols,
and whose graven images do excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria,
shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her idols,
so do to Jerusalem and her idols?
Wherefore it shall come to pass,
that when the Lord hath performed his whole work upon Mount Zion,
and on Jerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the stout heart
of the king of Assyria, and the glory of his high looks.
For he sayeth, By the strength of my hand I have done it,
and by my wisdom.
For I am prudent, and I have removed the bonds of the people,
and have robbed their treasures, and I have put down the inhabitants
like a valiant man.
And my hand hath found, as a nest of riches of the people,
and as one gathereth eggs that are left, have I gathered all the earth.
And there was none that moved the wing, or opened the mouth, or peeped.
Shall the axe boast itself against him that heweth therewith,
or shall the saw magnify itself against him that shaketh it,
as if the rod should shake itself against them that lift it up,
or as if the staff should lift up itself as if it were no wood?
Therefore shall the Lord, the Lord of hosts, send among his fat ones leanness,
and under his glory he shall kindle a burning, like the burning of a fire.
And the light of Israel shall be for a fire, and his holy one for a flame.
And it shall burn and devour his thorns and his briars in one day,
and shall consume the glory of his forest, and of his fruitful field,
both soul and body, and they shall be as when a standard bearer fainteth.
And the rest of the trees of his forest shall be few, that a child may write them.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the remnant of Israel,
and such as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shall no more again stay upon him
that smote them, but shall stay upon the Lord, the holy one of Israel, in truth.
The remnant shall return, even the remnant of Jacob, unto the mighty God.
For thou, thy people Israel, be as the sand of the sea, yet a remnant of them shall return.
The consumption decreed shall overflow with righteousness.
For the Lord God of hosts shall make a consumption even determined in the midst of all the land.
Therefore, thus saith the Lord God of hosts, O my people that dwellest in Zion,
be not afraid of the Assyrian. He shall smite thee with a rod,
and shall lift up his staff against thee after the manner of Egypt.
For yet a very little while, and the indignation shall cease, and mine anger in their destruction.
And the Lord of hosts shall stir up a scourge for him,
according to the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb.
And his rod was upon the sea, so shall he lift it up after the manner of Egypt.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that his burden shall be taken away from off thy shoulder,
and his yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing.
He is come to Ayathe. He is passed to Megrun.
At Micmash, he hath laid up his carriages. They are gone over the passage.
They have taken up their lodging and gibba. Ramah is afraid.
Kabiah of Saul is fled. Lift up thy voice, O daughter of Gollum.
Cause it to be heard unto Laish, O poor Anathoth.
Madmenna is removed. The inhabitants of Gibbim gather themselves to flee.
As yet shall he remain at Nob that day. He shall shake his hand against the mount
of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem. Behold, the Lord, the Lord of hosts shall lop
the bough with terror, and the high ones of stature shall be hewn down, and the hearty shall be
humbled. And he shall cut down the thickets of the forest with iron, and Lebanon shall be a mighty one.
Chapter 11. And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out
of his roots. And the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding,
the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord,
and shall make him of quick understanding in the fear of the Lord. And he shall not judge
after the sight of his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing of his ears, but with righteousness
shall he judge the poor and reprove with equity for the meek of the earth. And he shall smite the
earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.
And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reins.
The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid and the calf
and the lion and the fatling together, and a little child shall lead them. And the cow and the bear
shall feed, their young ones shall lie down together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.
And the suckling child shall play on the hole, and the asp and the weaned child shall put his hand on
to recover the remnant of his people, which shall be left from Assyria and from Egypt
and from Pathros and from Cush and from Elam and from Shinar and from Hamath
and from the islands of the sea. And he shall set up an ensign for the nations,
and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah
from the four corners of the earth. The envy also of Ephraim shall depart,
and the adversaries of Judah shall be cut off. Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and Judah
shall not vex Ephraim. But they shall fly upon the shoulders of the Philistines toward the west.
They shall spoil them of the east together. They shall lay their hands upon Edom and Moab
and the children of Ammon shall obey them, and the Lord shall utterly destroy the tongue
of the Egyptian sea. And with his mighty wind shall he shake his hand over the river,
and shall smite it in the seven streams, and make men go over Dry Shad. And there shall be
an highway for the remnant of his people, which shall be left from Assyria, like as it was to
Israel in the day that he came up out of the land of Egypt. Chapter 12. And in that day thou
shalt say, O Lord, I will praise thee. Though thou wast angry with me, thine anger is turned away,
and thou comfortest me. Behold, God is my salvation. I will trust and not be afraid,
for the Lord Jehovah is my strength and my song. He also is become my salvation. Therefore, with
joy shall ye draw water out of the wells of salvation, and in that day shall ye praise the
Lord. Call upon his name. Declare his doings among the people. Make mention that his name is exalted.
Sing unto the Lord, for he hath done excellent things. This is known in all the earth. Cry out
and shout thou, inhabitant of Zion, for great is the Holy One of Israel in the midst of thee.
End of chapters 10 through 12. Recording by Simon Wainwright.